One of the most interesting
and gratifying areas that
Ensure Tech has made
a difference in
perhaps fintech more broadly
has made a difference,
is that the so-called base
of the pyramid,
where technological
advancements have
allowed the reaching out to
markets that have traditionally
been underserved.
The definition of
the base of the pyramid
some would say by the C.K.
Prahalad notion, four or
five or some would say
six billion people around
the world living on
less than two dollars
equivalent per day,
represent what
one US President described
as the great powerful mass
at the base of
the economic pyramid.
Those who are underserved,
those who are challenged by
the iron ring of
hostile environments,
where direct insurance, which
could ensure away some
of the risk is
the hostile environment,
are either impractical, expensive
or not profitable to provide.
A leading example of
an enterprise focusing on
the base of the pyramid
is the Omidyar Network,
which was founded by
Pierre Omidyar in 2004.
Omidyar as many of you know
was the co-founder of eBay.
It's interesting model and that's
a non-profit profit
model that combines
a for-profit limited
liability company with
a 501(c)(3) organization in
the US that makes grants.
It's either donated
or invested more than
$1.5 billion since its inception.
Almost half-half, $676 million of
for-profit investments just
under $800 million in grants,
targeting microfinance,
microinsurance,
infrastructure and
technologically enabled
activities focused
again on the base of the pyramid,
much of which could be
classified as fintech.
One example via investments in
LeapFrog is specifically
microinsurance.
Microinsurance is
the provision of
insurance products or
services to low-income,
low-net worth
population, who would
otherwise have limited access to
insurance but who have
tremendous needs.
They could be exposed to
challenging geopolitical
environments or histories,
harsh physical
environments perhaps
exposed to earthquakes,
pestilence,
fires, volcanoes or
they could be exposed
to geopolitical challenges
as well as poverty.
The kinds of products that
have been provided by
microinsurers range from
traditional term life policies,
but also the kinds of
policies that focus on risks
that are especially specific
to the base of the pyramid,
namely accident insurance
and disability insurance,
which if not otherwise provided,
could see a family,
highly exposed to a given wage
earners' physical health.
Casualty insurance, insuring
crops and livestock,
and insuring against
earthquakes and
tsunamis and natural disasters.
Even these days, expanding
to savings plans.
The kinds of insurers
who are involved today
are large multinational
insurance companies
like Tokio Marine,
credit unions or
other mutuals, governments,
NGOs and also
small community organizations
and regional insurers.
The benefits of microinsurance
are traditional.
The pooling of risk,
providing financial protection
in a traditional manner,
but also allowing those
who are insured to take
risks that provide
betterment in their life.
For example, drought insurance,
providing the ability
for small farmers to
withstand the shock that would
otherwise wipe them out,
who have natural exposure
to variation in weather,
or safeguarding families
from falling back into
poverty from the death
of a breadwinner
or having a destroyed house.
The Indian Ministry
of Health found that
25 percent of
all hospitalization in
India pushed
individual or families
into poverty due to
the cost of treatment.
We could also target
specific populations.
For example, in South Africa,
All Life which is
a subdivision of
Sanlam has focused on providing
insurance to those who are
already HIV positive or
those living in flood zones
or to micro-entrepreneurs.
Microinsurance is also valuable,
because it can complement
other social welfare programs or
bolster other so-called
micro-finance activities.
For example,
the ability to assign
a term life policy to secure
a business or a mortgage loan.
A very interesting
example is BIMA,
which is an "Insurtech" leader
and some would say
an insurance business disruptor,
it's a mobile insurance
and health company
that provides accident,
life and health insurance to
low-income population
members in 15 African,
Asian and Latin
American countries,
with its largest markets
in Ghana and Sri Lanka.
How does it do it? It provides
insurance underwriting
and customer interaction
using mobile technology.
Microinsurance subscriptions
via cell phones.
The BIMA business model is
a "pay-as-you-go"
subscription model,
enabled by mobile
phone technology.
The products which can
cost as little as $0.60 a
month in the "pay-as-you
go" rollover approach,
offers payouts up to a
$1,000 to a family if
the insured person dies.
It's a streamline model,
takes only three
minutes to sign up,
and the payments are
collected through
mobile phone services using
local country technology.
Recently, BIMA has
indicated that it
has grown by over 550,000
customers a month and that
the overwhelming majority of
those customers live on
less than $10 a day.
In fact, three-quarters
of them have
never had insurance before.
Executives at BIMA
tell us that one major
component that their offering is
educating customers on
how life insurance works,
because many of them had
simply never been exposed to
it and faced a trust gap.
Because they've
never been exposed,
they didn't think it worked.
They needed to be
shown by example.
BIMA recently received
a $300 million valuation
at the sale of
LeapFrog stake to Allianz,
the European insurer, for
almost a $100 million.
There are some
subtle differences,
when we consider what
the incumbents have been
doing with respect to
investment around
the globe or with
respect to maturity of
investment they've been making.
Clearly in the last five years,
technology developed
in the United States
has led the fray.
54 percent of private
technology investments
by insurers themselves have
focused on the United States.
That has been
diversifying however,
compared to the last five years.
For example, in
the last five years,
54 percent of private
technology investment
by incumbents has been in
the United States whereas,
in the fourth quarter of 2018,
only 33 percent has been.
21 percent was in China,
13 percent in Germany and
13 percent in the UK
compared to 8,
8, and 6 over
the last five years.
In other words, we see
a rapid internationalization of
investment targeting
by those who are
moving quickly to ramp
up as incumbents.
We also see that they
are investing further
along the life cycle of
the company's targeted.
Only 16 percent of investments
were Seed or Angel stage,
whereas 29 and 24 percent
respectfully were
Series A or Series B.
It's not that surprising
that incumbents
are outsourcing
technological development.
Now, we can see that trend
continuing the most
recent time period,
when 35 percent of
targeted investments fell into
the Series B classification.
This is a pattern that we
see in other industries
historically where,
independent disruptors,
those who finance and
carry out innovation are
brought into the incumbents
as the incumbents respond
to the disruption.
Insurtech is an outstanding
example of that pattern.